                        _______________________

                         QUESTIONS TO CONSIDER

                             Britt Anderson
                        _______________________


The following questions may be of use as you plan your preparation for
the final examination.

1. What was the inspiration for the form and structure of the book?
   Dante's Inferno
   - In what ways are they similar/different
2. Why was Galileo chosen as the principal character?
3. What are some of the principal schools of thought on solutions to the
   "mind:brain" problem?
4. In the Notes of Chapter 1 Tononi writes,
         But in the dream Galileo, like Berkeley and Kant after
         him, begins to wonder whether the so-called objective
         qualities ... aren't also a product of the mind.
   - What does this mean?
   - Where does Tononi stand on this issue?
5. What does Tononi make of Crick's statement that,
         You, your joys and your sorrows .. are nothing but a pack
         of neurons (pg 123).
6. What is a vegetative state?
7. What is the relevance of the vegetative state for consciousness
   studies?
8. Is any of Adrian Owen's work on vegetative states in conflict with
   the Tononi's theory as developed in /Phi/?
9. What do you think Tononi feels about the claim that consciousness
   depends on neuronal number?
10. What is the scientific support for the idea that neuronal number (or
    synapse number) is a critical quantitative component of
    consciousness?
11. What is meant by the phrase (p 48) that "Vision is in the mind, not
    in the eye."
12. In the section on Mersenne (p 62) Galileo wonders if he is conscious
    or whether he is like Copernicus. Galileo asks, "How would one
    know?" How would one know? What counts as evidence as consciousness,
    and why?
13. What are the role of fetuses, animals, and sleepers in this debate?
14. Is memory essential (relevant) for consciousness? What is the
    evidence?
15. What is the structure that is severed in the "split-brain" treatment
    for epilepsy?
16. What should we make of the fact that in split-brain people the left
    hemisphere seems just as conscious as the whole brain?
17. What are the implications (p 84) of the fact that,
          When Salerno warmed both brains he did not conjure up
          both of them separately. Instead, Ishma & El became one
          consciousness.
18. Zombies (as discussed on p 88) have a prominent place in philosophy
    of mind. What is a zombie? Why are they relevant for consciousness
    theories?
19. What is an unconscious perception (p 95)?
20. What is a "zombie module"? Do we have any reason not to think they
    are conscious too?
21. What change characterizes the brain's electrical activity in sleep
    and seizures (p 101)?
22. How is this relevant for Tononi's theory?
23. How do Descartes and Tononi's theories of consciousness differ?
24. Is consciousness unitary?
25. "Why does consciousness live in the brain and not the liver?" (p
    119)
26. In what way is the problem of the neural basis of memory a simpler
    problem than the neural basis of consciousness? (p 120)
27. In Chapter 12 Alturi seems to advance a form of the knowledge
    argument: once we know enough to produce a behavior in an automaton
    we will know all there is to know about it. How does this relate to
    consciousness?
28. The diode is used as an extended example. What are we supposed to
    learn from it?
29. Explain the equation on page 145.
30. Why is this equation in the book?
31. If information is critical to consciousness than why aren't we
    talking about information quantity instead of information
    integration?
32. Vision and audition are processed by distinct receptors, neurons,
    and cortical regions. Is this in conflict with the example of the
    blind and deaf men introduced on page 159?
33. Find the passage on page 164 beginning with "...but so what? ...
    There are all kinds of things that cannot be factorized ... but why
    would any of this matter for consciousness?" Discuss what is being
    said here, by whom, and why it matters.
34. Why should integrated information acquire a subjective side and
    become experience (p 187)?
35. Are the absence of hearing and the absence of sound the same thing?
    As a related question, can you see in isolation or only in
    opposition (p 189)?
36. Explain (very briefly) the hierarchical theory of vision and relate
    it to Tononi's theory (p 200). Is it a persuasive link?
37. What is panpsychism? How does it relate to Tononi's theory? What are
    the alternatives?
38. The /light/ in the palace of light seems the least critical part of
    the metaphor. Do you agree? What else is there to this metaphor that
    could be more important?
39. What is "maximum ignorance" (p 209)? How does that relate to the
    theory?
40. Provide a definition of quale and qualia? What is the difference?
    This definition should satisfy a "philosopher." How does it relate
    to Spinoza's palace.
41. How is Darwin's use as a guide justified?
42. In Chapter 24 we see Consciousness disintegrate with dementia; why
    does this happen? Explain in terms of the neural events and their
    relation to Tononi's theory.
43. If dementia degrades consciousness, could we have the opposite? A
    medical condition that augmented consciousness? How would that work?
    Could it be of infinite magnitude?
44. What connections are there between consciousness and sensory
    intensity?
45. Is sensory stimulation necessary for consciousness? In general? Or
    for Tononi?
46. What is the relationship between consciousness and
    self-consciousness? Where does memory fit in?
47. Does it even make sense to talk about "levels of consciousness" or
    primary versus secondary consciousness? How do animals fit into the
    debate?
48. What is meant by "agency?" How does that relate to
    self-consciousness?
49. Is a theory of consciousness necessary, relevant, or orthogonal to
    theories of morality? Distinguish among the terms epistemology,
    ontology, and deontology.
50. Are there integrated mental operations of which we are not
    conscious? If consciousness is integrated information how can this
    be?
51. Can you give a concise summary of Freud's concepts of id, ego, and
    superego?
52. Is Freud's theory of the unconscious compatible with Tononi's theory
    of consciousness?
53. Does Tononi's theory condemn us to never see anything new; to always
    be limited to the combinations of simple experiences?
54. Did evolution exist before Darwin (Chapter 31)?
